# 6 Mapping to RDF with Triples Maps

A _**triples map**_ specifies a rule for translating
each iteration of a logical data source to zero or more RDF triples.

The RDF triples generated from one row in the logical data source all share the same subject.

A triples map is represented by a resource that references the following other resources:


* It MUST have exactly one `rr:logicalSource` property.
* It MUST have exactly one [subject map]() that specifies
how to generate a subject for each iteration of the logical source.
It may be specified in two ways:
    1. using the `rr:subjectMap` property, whose value MUST be the [subject map](), or
    2. using the constant shortcut property ``rr:subject``.
* It MAY have zero or more `rr:predicateObjectMap` properties,
whose values MUST be [predicate-object maps]().
They specify pairs of [predicate maps]() and [object maps]() that,
together with the subjects generated by the [subject map](),
may form one or more [RDF triples]() for each iteration.

The referenced data of all [term maps]() of a [triples map]()
([subject map](), [predicate maps](), [object maps](), [graph maps]())
MUST be references that exist in the [term map]()'s logical source.

+++ ADD example +++

# 6.1 Creating Resources with Subject Maps

A [subject map]() is a [term map](). 
It specifies a rule for generating the subjects of the [RDF triples]()
generated by a [triples map]().

# 6.2 Typing Resources (rr:class)

A [subject map]() MAY have one or more _**class IRIs**_.
They are represented by the `rml:class` property.
The values of the `rml:class` property MUST be [IRIs]().
For each [RDF term]() generated by the [subject map](),
[RDF triples]() with predicate `rdf:type` and the class IRI as object will be generated.

**NOTE**
Mappings where the class IRI is not constant,
but needs to be computed based on the contents of the database,
can be achieved by defining a [predicate-object map]() with predicate `rdf:type`
and a non-constant [object map]().

+++ ADD example +++

+++ ADD generated RDF +++

## 6.3 Creating Properties and Values with Predicate-Object Maps

A predicate-object map is a function
that creates one or more predicate-object pairs
for each logical iteration of a logical data source.
It is used in conjunction with a [subject map]()
to generate [RDF triples]() in a [triples map]().

A [predicate-object map]() is represented by a resource
that references the following other resources:

* One or more [predicate maps](). Each of them may be specified in one of two ways:
    1. using the `rr:predicateMap` property, whose value MUST be a [predicate map](), or
    2. using the constant shortcut property [rr:predicate]().

* One or more [object maps]() or referencing [object maps]().
Each of them may be specified in one of two ways:
    1. using the `rr:objectMap` property,
    whose value MUST be either an [object map](), or a [referencing object map]().
        using the constant shortcut property `rr:object`.

A _**predicate map**_ is a [term map]().

An _**object map**_ is a [term map]().


















































